
The thread of continuity between mind and life is expressed in many forms (Thompson).
From the ecological nature of information (Wilson) to the neural basis of cognition 
(Churchland) to the hormonal basis of emotion (Feldman-Barrett). Another expression of
this continuity is most often treated as a homonym rather than a unifying principle,
with few exceptions (Gottlieb, Lincklater, Heisenger). However, the line between 
growing and learning is much more fractal than we may initially suspect.\\

Development by it's very nature is dynamic. However, both learning and 
growth are concerned with the emergence of stable structure through a 
changing process. Although, that structure may take the form of a behavior
or a body respectively it still must follow the mathematical laws that
govern the formation of stable structures from dynamics.\\

One common form of stable structure emerging from a dynamical process is
bistability. Bistability is the formation of two possible equilibrium states
of a system. Thus it is one of the simplest forms of structure that can 
emerge from a system of interacting processes. It is also found in abundance
across both developmental biology (cite) and developmental psychology (cite).
Therefore developing an understanding of bistability could serve as an important
stepping stone for recognizing the unity of learning and growth.\\

Although many theoretical tools exist for the study of bistable systems there is
less research on how such systems can be understood in the context of experimental
results. In this work we present a method for connecting a dynamical model of 
a bistable system to probabilistic outcomes from experiments. First we explore this
method in the case of a tractable toy model where we can derive the exact relationships
which we then explore numerically in the context of two separate experimentally
motivated models. We demonstrate how the method can clarify the roles of parameters in
a dynamical model and provide testable hypothesis about relationships of manipulations
in the experimental setting. Finally, the experimental examples we consider are from
the developmental biology and developmental psychology literature demonstrating how
considering learning and growth as homologous processes can provide novel insights
in interpreting experimental results. 

Let us consider the case of bistability. Many biological systems, differentiating
cells, neural assemblies, behaviors have multiple modes of activity. The simplest 
example being two modes of activity. Bistability is abundant across biological systems.
For this paper we will consider two examples from different branches of development.
The development or morphology and the development of behavior. In the first case we
find that there is bistability lurking in the development of planarian flatworm. In
the simplified abstraction the flatworm may end up as either a one-headed or two-headed
variant. On the other end we consider an example from behavioral development specifically
human infants and prehension. The development of reach to grasp in infants is also governed
by what seems to be bistable dynamics.\\
Although there is much to be said about the theoretical tools available for the study of
bistable systems, for a unified science we must also consider the implications as they relate
to experimental results in such systems. Experimental results are often confounded by the many
real world factors that are ignored in pure theoretical work. This makes it difficult to increase
the discussion between the two fields. In this paper we propose one method that seeks to 
slightly alleviate this problem. We consider how one could use a dynamical model of bistability
relate this to stochastic experimental results and use that relation to gather new insight
about the model.\\
We will do this by first considering the method in the context a simplified toy model (a cubic
equation) then relating the technique back to the experimental systems previously menntioned
above. We will show how this method can give novel ways of thinking about parameter relations
in a model and how this perspective can help inspire new experimental designs.

\section{Methods}